Add 2022-11-23 agenda and minutes (#483)
solid/specification: meetings/2022-11-23.md

URL: http://solidproject.org/ED/protocol#considerations

* SC: An overview about this section and request for comments.
* ...: Shares screen of protocol, but applies to all specs.
* ...: Usually non-normative, in context of particular protocol. We'll use the protocol as a baseline.

> * ...: The consideration sections is usually to detail privacy, security, i18n etc. Typically quite close to W3C standards, and reviewed by W3C horizontal groups. It is not intended to be an exhaustive list: illustrations, some things are out of scope.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ...: The consideration sections is usually to detail privacy, security, i18n, etc. Typically quite close to W3C standards, and reviewed by W3C horizontal groups. It is not intended to be an exhaustive list; illustrations, some things are out of scope.
```

> * ...: In the Solid Protocol we have: security, privacy, accessibility, i18n, security and privacy, and societal impact. W3C offers a [security and privacy questionnaire/review](https://www.w3.org/TR/security-privacy-questionnaire/), with details on what to consider for a spec, e.g., what information might this website expose, to whom and for what purpose. Not everything is applicable or useful for each spec. Some of the considerations can be picked up in this section - not all covered in the Solid Protocol at the moment. For one that's written in full, see WAC's Security and Privacy Review: https://solidproject.org/TR/wac#security-privacy-review . This information could also be included in one or more specific consideration sections. These are important to help the implementers know what they have to take into account in order to incorporate them. They are backed by implementation experience and feedback gathered as part of the consensus process. For a particular feature, we have to make a call whether it is something for conformance or for consideration. For example, what kind of things servers mean when they respond with certain status code. There are also considerations that come directly from other specs, e.g., RFC/HTTP specs. It is not that we have to go into details of everything, e.g., harassment, etc. in a Solid spec, but we can reference to the relevant documents there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ...: In the Solid Protocol we have: security, privacy, accessibility, i18n, and societal impact. W3C offers a [security and privacy questionnaire/review](https://www.w3.org/TR/security-privacy-questionnaire/), with details on what to consider for a spec, e.g., what information might this website expose, to whom, and for what purpose. Not everything is applicable or useful for each spec. Some of the considerations can be picked up in this section — not all are covered in the Solid Protocol at the moment. For one that's written in full, see WAC's Security and Privacy Review: <https://solidproject.org/TR/wac#security-privacy-review>. This information could also be included in one or more specific consideration sections. These are important to help the implementers know what they have to take into account in order to incorporate them. They are backed by implementation experience and feedback gathered as part of the consensus process. For a particular feature, we have to make a call whether it is something for conformance or for consideration. For example, what kind of things servers mean when they respond with certain status code. There are also considerations that come directly from other specs, e.g., RFC/HTTP specs. It is not that we have to go into details of everything (e.g., harassment, etc.) in a Solid spec, but we can reference to the relevant documents there.
```

* SC: Some of the topics are to bring awareness, draw attention and get people to contribute. There are issues and PRs where people can follow up.
* Sindhu: I want to talk about doing Use Cases before you finish your specification. To do broad use cases and sit down with the users. I've been working with software for long time. I see that if you don't do use cases with real people, developing software becomes very hard. Solid is something that implementations will be based on. I don't think you are going to get user friendly technology until you take on deep work with users. I think some recommendations are nebulous and users are not. If working with users is not being done I think there is a gap.

> * TBL: It is really important to understand use cases, few years ago in MIT group we've done a lot of work on use cases. At protocol level Solid applies to all data, used by any app. Solid Protocol is supposed to be universal. The developers should be able to write any application that they can dream up in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* TBL: It is really important to understand use cases, few years ago in MIT group we've done a lot of work on use cases. At protocol level, Solid applies to all data, used by any app. Solid Protocol is supposed to be universal. The developers should be able to write any application that they can dream up in the future.
```

> * ...: For SolidOS is a user facing system, Solid Protocol is developer facing system and got to be universal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ...: SolidOS is a user-facing system; Solid Protocol is developer-facing system and has to be universal.
```

* Sindhu: I'm not trying something critical about anybody's work. The developers are not representative for the majority of the world. I'm myself a minority woman, I work for the US federal government, work with states, I work with technologies to make it work for the people. I sit there and do use cases, I talk with Afro-American single women in US. You can't build something if you don't talk with the people.
* TBL: Where do we find your use cases?

> * Sindhu: You can talk to me, I don't have them published. I work with mental health services and homeless populations. I try to bring process to the table not the answers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Sindhu: You can talk to me, I don't have them published. I work with mental health services and homeless populations. I'm trying to bring process to the table, not answers.
```

* SC: TimBL made an announcement and maybe he can give brief description, maybe Pierre-Antoine can fill in as well.
* TBL: CG was active for long time. All the structure with panels and reviews has been in CG. It will be easier to make progress if we charter a Working Group.
* ...: The crucial thing is the scope of WG, the easy part is that WG can take over the Solid Protocol and everything that server needs to know.
* TBL: https://www.w3.org/DesignIssues/diagrams/solid/solid-layers-2022-4.svg
* ...: Since web was introduced, the blue pieces are what people are thinking about web2.0
* ...: Solid adds on top of it authentication and universal API, Solid Protocol is what allows separation of apps from data.

> * ...: Solid Protocol spec which is at 0.9 which is the lavender color layer. Once you have Solid Protocol people can write applications. If they agree how they work the applications can interoperate. We've been writing some shapes, each of the purple hexagons is a domain where we take a vocabulary (e.g., vcard).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ...: Solid Protocol spec which is at 0.9 which is the lavender color layer. Once you have Solid Protocol, people can write applications. If they agree how they work, the applications can interoperate. We've been writing some shapes, each of the purple hexagons is a domain where we take a vocabulary (e.g., vcard).
```
